---
layout: single
title:  "Why is it challenging to ensure reproducibility in neural networks"
excerpt: "set random seeds"

categories:
  - machine_learning
tags:
  - [machine_learning, AI, data_science, reproducibility]
header:
  teaser: https://github.com/ywkim92/ywkim92.github.io/assets/66911578/b2496260-d397-4857-ad86-88eb294ba8ca
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
use_math: true
date: 2023-06-13
last_modified_at: 2023-06-13
---
# Why is it more challenging compared to ML?
1. Randomness
  - Neural networks often involve various sources of randomness, such as weight initialization, dropout, and data shuffling during training. 
  - These random factors can lead to different results each time the model is run, even with the same code and data.

2. Parallelism
  - Deep learning frameworks like PyTorch and TensorFlow are designed to take advantage of parallel computing capabilities, such as utilizing multiple GPUs or distributed systems. 
  - Parallelism introduces additional sources of non-determinism, as the order of operations across parallel workers may vary.

3. Platform and library dependencies
  - Deep learning models rely on various libraries, platforms, and hardware configurations. 
  - Minor differences in the versions of these dependencies or the underlying hardware can lead to variations in the results.

# Best practices
1. Set random seeds
  - Set random seeds for the random number generators used in the model, as well as the libraries and frameworks involved. 
  - This helps ensure that random operations are reproducible across runs.

2. Control environment
  - Create a consistent software environment by specifying the versions of the libraries and frameworks used. 
  - Use virtual environments or containerization tools like Docker to isolate the environment and ensure consistent dependencies.

3. Record hyperparameters
  - Keep a record of all the hyperparameters used in the model, including network architecture, optimizer settings, learning rate, batch size, etc. 
  - This allows you to recreate the model with the exact same configuration.

4. Save and load models
  - Save the trained model parameters to disk after training. 
  - This allows you to load the same model and evaluate it on new data or resume training from the same point in the future.

5. Checkpointing
  - Periodically save model checkpoints during training, so you can restore the model to a specific state and continue training if needed.

6. Validate data preprocessing
  - Ensure consistent data preprocessing and handling. 
  - Any transformations or augmentations applied to the data should be properly documented and consistently applied during training and evaluation.

7. Document hardware and software configurations
  - Document the hardware specifications (e.g., CPU, GPU) and the versions of the libraries, frameworks, and dependencies used. 
  - This helps reproduce the environment and configurations for future runs.

# Reference
- OpenAI. (2023). ChatGPT [Large language model]. https://chat.openai.com/chat
- source of teaser: <a href="https://unsplash.com/ko/%EC%82%AC%EC%A7%84/GK9kkPIZyAs?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Unsplash</a>의<a href="https://unsplash.com/@wolfgang_hasselmann?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Wolfgang Hasselmann</a>

<br />
[Scroll to Top](#){: .btn .btn--primary .btn-small .align-center}
